From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number 400 recorded live Thursday,
November 28th, 2013. This episode of Hansel
minutes is brought to you
by Telleria offering the best
in developer tools and support
online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of gesture pack
a powerful gesture, recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Microsoft developer, Dino Vila about
the new open source, no
JS tools for visual studio.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. I'm up here
in Redmond on the Microsoft
campus. And I happened to
be talking to Dino villain.
How's it going? Great. Thanks
for having me back. Yeah,
dude, you, you came on
and talked about Python tools
for vs, which freaked people
out. Lots of positivity. There
were actually folks on hacker
news that were like, I
can't believe it. Yeah. It's
people are constantly shocked that
we have one of the
best Python IDs that are
out there Are. And I
said this a little bit
before, but I want to
dig in like, are you
guys sneaking under the, like,
has somebody, has no one
noticed you yet? Like you
under the radar? No, they
noticed us and they continued
to fund us for some
reason. It's, you know, we
are making Can people happy
with our tools and making
it a little bit easier
to work in the Microsoft
ecosystem. How many people are
you guys? So we have
a team of four developers,
two testers and one. Okay.
And are you the dev
or one of the PM's
or one of the deaths?
One of the deaths. Okay,
cool. So you guys just
came out with no tools
for visual studio. Yup. They
said it would never happen.
Yeah. You know, it was
a great fit for our
team to go off and
conquer. You know, obviously we've
done a lot of work
across the company with node
for windows Azure. We've had
the windows Azure PowerShell SDK
for deploying to it, but
we've been missing a big
piece of having a good
tooling story for it. And
so my team has been
there going off and creating
a tooling for visual studio
for dynamic languages for some
time now. And so it
was something that we could
come in and quickly get
ramped up on and create
a new ID for doing
no development With the Python
stuff. There's this idea of
environments and there's lots of
different choices, different iron Python
or fi Python at this
thing is set up different
run times with node. It's
a little bit more straightforward.
So obviously there are versions
of node, but right now
we're not doing anything with
that. We've just gone a
nice, simple path of just
kind of assuming that you're
on the latest node or
the latest node that we
targeted when we released. And
we just assume one node,
if you had multiple nodes
installed, you could go in
and configure a project so
that it points at a
different node dot ECC and
you run against a different
node. But for things like
IntelliSense against the built in
modules, we just assume right
now, I think it's 10
dot two. One is what
our intelligence is based off
of. So it's not nearly
as flexible, but it doesn't
really need to be. And
the experience generally is freaking
me out because I can
now go file new project
in visual studio, on a
machine I built two weeks
ago and I see iOS
and Android. Cause I put
Xamarin tools on right. I've
got windows door and windows
phone. I've got node and
Python all instead of vs.
Yep. It's just, you can
target anything a year ago.
I couldn't do that. It's
just making me just a
little uncomfortable because I know
that somehow, somehow Microsoft's going
to screw me over in
this, right? Yeah, No. So
I mean, one of the
great things about, you know,
a lot of what you
just mentioned is it's all
open source, right? So the
Python tools are all open
source. The node tools are
all open source. I don't
know about Xamarin vs tooling,
but obviously huge portions of
what they do are actually
all open source. So, you
know, even if we try
to take it away from
you, you could always bring
it back. You could go
and fork our repo and
start adding features that you
want or changing it to
be however you want. And
it's, it's not going away.
So sometimes we'll see runtimes
that are open source, but
not tooling. Yeah. Everything you're
doing is open source. Is
that correct? Yep. Okay. So
I can go file new
project. I go to Java
script. I went, I went,
I ran, it actually ran
around looking for a node
node. Yeah. So it's, you
know, VAs is very language
centric and obviously all of
our JavaScript, you know, all
of our node files and
in dot JS. And so
it's JavaScript, we will probably
make it a little bit
more obvious by putting a
tab under JavaScript that says
node dot JS. So that
it's a little more noticeable,
but I think it'll probably
stay under JavaScript. Yeah. It
just took me a second.
Yeah. And I looked around,
it was all the windows
store, JavaScript stuff. And then
right there, kind of just
chilling, just hanging out this
note. And it was interesting
cause you've got a couple
of things and this was
very intuitive. Once my brain
shifted into the right mode,
it said, Oh new project
from existing node files. It
took me a second, but
now I totally get it
because there isn't a project
file there's no, no. Yup.
And so people, this was
actually something that we kind
of struggled with with early
adopters was how do they
get started? And initially we
just told them, you know,
take your files and drag
them from windows Explorer into
vs. You know, create a
project somewhere. And people are
running into problems with that.
At one point in time,
we were overriding their server
dot JS. And so we
knew we had to make
it really simple to get
going. And so now you
can just go through this
wizard and it will collect
all the files that are
in your project by default,
it'll exclude your node modules
folder because you probably don't
want that in your projects.
And you're constantly struggling with
upgrades and reacting things and
removing things whenever you do
an NPM install. So it's
just right there, it'll suck
everything in and you can
get going. Hmm. And I,
I went and downloaded ghost,
which is kind of the
exciting thing. Does your it's
the project and know that
everyone's jazzed about today, it's
kind of WordPress blogging type
thing except it's written in
node. So I went to
the try ghost or whatever
the ghost website was. I
said, download it, put it
in a folder. I sat
there and I stared at
it for awhile trying to
figure out what to do
next when new node project
pointed at it. And then
it said, well, which of
these files do you want
to be your startup? Yup.
Which is really cool because
ghost doesn't have a server
JS or an app JS
they do is index dot
JS. Cause they want to
be a module potentially. And
I hit index and that
said, would you want to
exclude your node modules? It
seemed like a reasonable idea
hit, okay, hit control five.
And it ran and it
just worked it shelled out
to no DXC, which is
kind of what I would
expect. Could you talk to
me about the components that
would be required for one,
to have language support there's
like debugger and there's the
coloring in the syntax highlighting?
What are all the recipe
for integrating with visual studio?
There's so many different pieces
that you could potentially plug
in. Right? You mentioned kind
of a lot of the
basics that people think of.
There's also things like object
browser, which we don't support
node right now, which can,
you know, you can see
your functions and in class
based languages, you can see
your classes. And potentially we
could map that for JavaScript.
If we see certain patterns,
What's a basic, like when
you think about, I want
node and for the 90%
solution, what did you need
to plug in? I mean,
the basics I think of
are syntax color highlighting, which
we actually get for free
from visual studio because it
already has JavaScript support, IntelliSense
and debugging. I mean, those
are kind of the top
three that are really important.
I mean, those are the
things that I use every
single day when I'm developing.
And if I didn't have
those, I wouldn't really feel
like I, as an ID
to a lesser extent, there's
things like profiling. There's obviously
the project system, which is
pretty big, although, you know,
potentially a little controversial in
some ways, cause some people
like project systems, some people
just like having all of
their files on disc. We
went in the project system
route. Obviously there's a bunch
of benefits of plugging into
other things that are out
there like deployment to windows
Azure. And so those with
dynamic languages and another big
one is the rebel window
where you can do interactive
development very quickly and experiment
and try things out. And
a ripple is like an
immediate Window. It's like an
immediate window on steroids. So
rebel stands for redeveloped print
loop. And if you were
to just fire up, no
dot exi from the command
line, it's the experience that
you get there, where you
can do console dot log
high and you can start
to find functions and whatever.
How do I get into
that in, you know, I'm
not looking for that. Couldn't
find it View other windows
note inter interactive window. No
JS Deba windows. Yes. So
in Python we have a
debug interactive window. We don't
have that yet for note.
Okay. So it's under view
other windows. Yep. Okay. And
is that just a view
on running node by itself?
Yeah. Just starts up a
new note ECC and you
can just go ahead and
plug away and write whatever
code you want. Just remember
It into a window inside
of yes. Oh, node script.
That's running. We have a,
a node, like a JavaScript
file itself, which is communicating
over a socket to the
visual studio process. And so
as you type stuff in,
it sends it to the
node process, it evaluates it
and then it sends it
back. I see. Okay. So
when I hit control F
five and node launches in
the browser launches. Yup. You're
orchestrating that. Yes. Okay. And
does, do I have the
support where I can like
pick different browsers, like asp.net
gives you this kind of
like dropdown for like pick
Chrome Firefox. So For control
F five, I actually think
the answer to that might
be no, but I'm, I'm
not entirely certain off the
top of my head for
the answer I believe
is actually yes. I think
we got this. All right.
So you brought up asp.net.
And one of the interesting
things about our node projects
is that they're actually asp.net
projects. So yes. So for
people who don't know, visual
studio supports flavored projects where
you have a base project
type like C-sharp or VB
or, or Java script or
no JS, and then you
can have flavors on top
of that. And so the
asp.net project system is implemented
as a flavor. And so
it flavors VB or C
sharp usually. And then we
actually add yet another flavor
on top of that so
that we can sand which
the asp.net project system and
remove everything about it that
we don't like. So it'll
inject all of these random
folders into your project system
and we don't want those
to be there and it'll
change colors, a special folder.
Did you just deny those
things? No, we don't want
that. What is it that
you did want, why make
the notes? That's a web
project flavors. Cause it doesn't
sound like it's really an
asp.net project Project. Yes. Yes.
And that's, there's all sorts
of tools which plug in
and recognize web projects. And
so those are the deployment
to windows Azure for cloud
service, for publishing to windows,
Azure websites. Those are the
main things that we really
wanted to get, but it
does bring along that debugging
aspect. You, when you're in
the tools, you'll see the
dropdown, you can select your
web browser and choose it
and launch it either into
Chrome or Firefox or I
E or visual studio built
in patients. And of course,
since we added in an
asp.net, the more emulators choice
you can go and get
like the electric plum emulator
for iPhone, a note as
well, that should work just
cause it's just another, Yes.
I don't quite know how
that is, how that all
comes together. You know, there
could be some work there
where we need something else
to light up to make
it all work, but I
will call you if it
doesn't work. Awesome. That's very
clever though. Now the debugging
part seems kind of impossible
because I get how it
works in.net because I've understood
it all the while. Yup.
Does visual studio really have
deep integration and.net or is
it really that there's a
bright line that says we
support any debugger at all?
So both of those statements
are kind of true. So
visual studio supports any debugger
at all. It has has
a set of interfaces that
you have to implement. And
ultimately you're providing a comm
object, which is your debug
engine and visual studio will
instantiate that and your debug
engine could do whatever it
wants, basically. Okay. The visual
studio ships with a number
of built in debug engines,
obviously it has its native
debug engine. It has its.net
debug engine. And so that
is the builtin support for
those already Built in though
there, but they are still
someone's instance of those things
that they came with it.
Yep. Yep. So there's still
instances of, is that right?
Yes. Yes. So they implement
the same interfaces. Okay. And
visual studio instantiates them in
the same way. And you
know, they go off and
talk to the process and
make all of the debugging
magic happen. So for, for
doing no debugging, we just
had to go off and
implement that again. And we've
done that once with Python
and the, the way we
implement the two experiences is
actually pretty similar. Ultimately for
both of the debuggers, we
were just talking to a
remote process over a socket
in the case of Python,
we had to go and
write the server side of
that, where we're in the
Python process for node, that's
actually all done for us,
which was kind of great
in that it's all in
VA and VA, it exposes
this API, which is very,
The eight is the JavaScript
engine. Right. And not, we're
not using the windows JavaScript,
Right? This is Google's JavaScript
engine, which has been used
inside of node. And it's
the JavaScript engine that joint
ships with every copy of
it. Yeah. This is a
really important thing to remind
people of is this, you're
not doing a node flavor
or a style of, no,
this is no, DXE the
one that you install when
you download node. Yeah. So
if your node works today
on windows, you know, we're
not going and giving you
a different node, everything's just
going to continue to work.
So you're doing the debugging,
You're getting like F nine
for break points and step
over and hover and all
that stuff. Yep. You're going
back over into node and
VA and interrogating it and
asking questions. So It sends
us events based upon things
that happen and we send
it a notifications of what
we want to happen. So
when you hit F nine,
we will go ahead and
send you a set, a
break point here, when you
hit a five, we'll go
ahead and launch node and
connect to its socket. And
then we will send over
all of the break points
that you have set already.
And it will start sending
us events like, you know,
this script has loaded and
then we have to do
a little dance to bind
break points at that point,
binding and rebinding break has
been rather problematic, but because
of us or because of
them, because of them because
of like, so they will
recompile things and they will
bind break points when their
script gets loaded. They'll tell
us, so break point has
been bound and it will
kind of jump around and
we have to jump through
some hoops to fix things
up and keep things looking
normal to you from the
vs side of the world.
So it should feel though,
like anything, yes. Source code
and hit, hit. Yup. Set
your break points. Step in,
step out, step over. We
support conditional breakpoints, kind of
all of the basic things
that you'd expect to be
there When, if I understand
correctly and forgive my ignorance
when I'm opening a JS
file and I get the
coloring, that's a language service.
It gives me that coloring.
And then when I do
kind of IntelliSense and most
of the things, some of
the magic that we do
in the JavaScript engine is,
is chakra. Yup. So how
do you balance that? So
our IntelliSense is actually all
built around chakra, so it,
the way visual studios and
Telus and chakra being the
. Yes, yes. Yeah. And,
and the IntelliSense in visual
studio is built around chakra
to a pretty extreme extent.
It's actually, when you press
dot your code basically runs
in chakra up to the
point where you press dot
and, and then it sees
what expression you're at. And
it knows what that object
is. So your code is
executing. Now there's no side
effects from your code. Cause
it's running on kind of
a modified version of shocker,
actually that doesn't actually do
anything, but if you're doing
comparisons or loops or Evalyn
code, all of that code
will just execute and IntelliSense.
So you can actually get
a pretty amazing IntelliSense experience
because it can understand these
constructs that it couldn't understand
through static analysis. Okay. Now
the flip side to that
is you may potentially have
to run a lot of
code to get up to
that dot. And so if
you're working in a website,
you know, you're probably not
having a huge amount of
JavaScript code. That's running up
to a point with node.
We're starting to see that
we're starting to hit the
limits of where that works.
So as we evolve the
product, we're going to kind
of investigate other ways to
do IntelliSense. And that's kind
of one of the major
things that we have to
figure out post alpha. So
does that mean that the,
the original design of that
was just not right? Or
was it just focused on
client and not on server,
More focused on the client?
I think. And it works
great when it's worked, when
it's just about the client.
It, it is really pretty
amazing in the ways that
it can succeed where other
strategies don't work. So there's
trade offs When it gives
up, though, it says everything
turns yellow. And it just
says that. Yeah. And it'll
just give you the list
of all of the identifiers
that are in the file,
which it can get still
give you a reasonable completion
experience. Right. And that's an
experience that you see in
kind of lesser IDs, right.
Where they don't have, they
don't understand the full language,
but they can still offer
you completions on.by just looking
at what identifiers you've already
used. Why do you think
that we should continue to
push so hard for IntelliSense?
Like IntelliSense is not autotype
ahead or auto-complete, I wouldn't
one solution be to like
just pumped and just give
out. I think IntelliSense is
so great and such a
useful feature that yeah. You're
going to keep fighting for
IntelliSense. Yes, absolutely. I love
IntelliSense. I mean, it, it
makes me so much more
productive, even if I know
just about what I'm going
to type, you know, just,
I can type a little
bit of it and you
know, it's accurate and precise
and time. I bet autocomplete,
unless you've typed it before,
you're probably not going to
get that. Yeah. Yeah. And
I, you know, I just,
I also like it for
just exploring API APIs, right?
Like you want to know
what's there and you haven't
used this object model before
and it's so useful. And
you know, you can see
the functions, you can kind
of move around and the
completion box and see documentation
for things it's, you know,
not just good for coding,
but good for exploring too.
I was pretty impressed with
the, the NPM, the node
package manager experience. I kinda
thought it would look like,
like new get, but it
doesn't, it has kind of
an interesting dialogue box, which
made me start digging into
the story behind this. Cause
it doesn't look like code
that we did. Yeah. So
NPM was contributed to us
through red gate. So interestingly,
there has been a lot
of interest in node tools
for visual studio in general.
And there've been a couple
of other projects that have
been out there a little
bit. So there's actually someone
released something actually called no
JS tools for visual studio
up onto the visual studio
gallery. I believe that person
has now contributed. It's a
guy named Dimitri and I
forget his last name, sorry,
Dimitri, I'll put, I will
hunt down him Demetrius and
give him the respect that
he deserves. And so he's
contributed some bug fixes for
the debugger and other things.
And red gate was also
working on a tool which
is built around. I actually
think it was built off
of PTVs. And so PTVs
the Python tools. Yes. Visual
studio. And so we, you
know, we knew we were
working on these tools and
we saw these popping up.
And so we reached out
to everyone. We saw doing
this and we said, you
know, look, we're working on
it. Would you like to
collaborate with us? And one
of the things that red
gate had already done some
work on was the node
package manager. So we worked
with them and they contributed
the entire feature. Bart Reed
has actually been here this
week, preparing for launch and
fixing bugs and doing bug
bashes with us to try
to find bugs. And so
we just got MPM in
and it's kind of this
cute, awesome contribution. Yeah. I
just, as a disclosure point
for folks that may have
been paying attention, red gate
has, and occasionally sponsors my
blog. I did not know
that. I didn't know that
they were involved in this.
So I thought that was
kind of cool. I discovered
about an hour ago. Wow.
Cause I had called you
like last week, like, Hey,
can you come and do
the podcast? And then I
discovered red gate, but I
don't want anyone to think
that I'm doing anything weird
to do that. I also
thought that the, the ref
the way that you handle
references is really cool because
the node modules note under
scrum modules, folder appears it's
kind of in a ghosty
kind of way. Cause it's
not part of the process.
Yep. So I see it,
it has a little, it
has the same icon as
references does in visual studio.
Yeah. There's a bug in
alpha where it turns into
an open folder when it's
expanded. But It's cool though,
because I feel, I mean,
I'm just giving you like
feedback, cause I've only, I've
been running this thing for
a couple of hours now
because you guys gave me
a build like before we
did the video of the
video, rather than the podcast
that we're doing right now.
And I feel like there's
like the physical representation of
the modules and then there's
the logical tree. And I
really liked that. Like I
want to show the new
game guys that, and they
should do something similar. You
can drill down, you know,
you have your module right
there and then you expand
it and you see all
of its dependencies and you
can keep ongoing. And it's,
it's a nice, condensed view
of everything versus expanding node
modules itself. Right. Where there's
all of these extra folders,
all of these extra files
and it's, it was their
versions too. Yes. I think
that's really cool. So then
it's not, even if you
had some weird versioning where
you had, I'm not weird
if you had, you know,
package a or module a
rather that refers to C
and module B that refers
to, so you'll just see,
see twice And that's fine.
Yeah. And it will even
do things. So it's getting
that information from package dot
Jason, right. It's not just
the files that are on
desk. So if you have
a dependency, but you don't
actually have it on your
computer, it'll show that it's
missing. I noticed that. Yeah.
So it was that, and
I didn't know how to
fix it. Yeah. It, But,
but no, this is a
compliment. I opened up my
command line and I type
node install. And as it
was coming in, somehow you
guys were noticing it. Yeah.
Yup. We are tracking the
changes. And so it, yeah.
Solution Explorer, just updates go
over now Fresh. It was
kind of like rippling through
and even up to today.
Got you. So not only
does the MPM status update
like that in real time.
So does the actual files
on disk? So if you
do an NPM install, whatever,
and it starts creating node
modules, solution Explorer will actually
update in real time as
the files are getting updated,
whereas in a C-sharp or
VB project, you actually do
have to go over there
and press refresh. If you
want to see files that
are on disc, but non
year projects, you guys are
doing a lot of file
watcher. Yes. I thought that
was really cool though. I
just feel very comfortable. Yeah.
I actually eat, to be
honest with you, I hit
a bunch of toolbars and
stuff cause I really just
wanted it to look kind
of, I went into black
mode, like my black theme.
Cause I'm thinking about like,
I wanted it to look
like sublime. Yeah. But more.
Yeah. I feel like you've
succeeded in that. So I've
got debugging and I've got
watches and I've got, you
know yeah. That's another cool
idea. I think about the
NPM thing is a visual
studio solution explores this feature
to open new solution Explorer
windows, actually. And so you
could just go and click
on the MPM window and
you can open a new
solution Explorer window. That's just
scoped to MPN. So you
can kind of have your
solution Explorer with all of
your files over on the
right hand side. And you
could have an MPM window
over on the left hand
side. So you can kind
of have this separate MPM
window where you're managing and
just paying attention to your
packages in one spot. And
it just kind of falls
out of the features of
visual studio. And there are
some things that you don't
have done yet. Like I
opened the Jade views and
they're just kind of chilling.
Yep. Do you think that
you'll get to the point
where people will spend most
of their time in, in,
and using and getting Jade
coloring and like also dot
Jason files in the alpha?
We're not quite there. We're
going to have to go
through and add more classifiers
and things like that. Visual
studio has actually been pretty
good about at getting these
lesser used formats added. They
added less in some update,
like maybe vs update Two.
That was Mads that we
actually that web essentials and
then graduated. It, Was it
web Central's or matrix what
happened? It was web essentials.
Did it as a, we
have this thing called web
centrals that we do it
as we call it like
asp.net labs. Okay. And then
if it's a cool feature
and everyone like RA, they're
like, Hey, you should do
that. You'll graduate the feature.
And then we'll remove it
from Weber central. And then
we put it into VAs
proper. So we're doing crazy
stuff. We have like markdown
right now as a split
screen, then we'll remove it.
Nice. So one of the
things I want to make
sure you guys do, and
we're just now talking about
this for the first time
and it happened to be
recording it, talk to us
because we're actually maybe going
to add the dot Jason
stuff. Okay, great. It might
break you guys. So my
opinion is They can only
have one owner of the
extension. So Mads and friends,
because I think they're going
to do that and they
may beat you to it.
Okay. It would be really
cool to make web essentials
compliment you guys. Cause you've
got that.style thing as well.
It looks kind of like
less, I think web essentials
plus node would be really
complimentary and we should make
sure we don't step on
each other because it will
break. Yeah. So let's, let's
have that conversation because I
think that with the hovering
over CSS and the JavaScript
debugger and the node project
system, Weber sensors could really
be complimentary. And then you've
forgetting about, and I would
hate to say this, but
I just started the sentence
forgetting about asp.net and thinking
about visual studio as a,
kind of a, just a
web ID that handles any
kind of thing you want
to do. Yep. And we
have a, we have the
web express skew. Right. And
one of the, one of
the things that we have
been talking about is how
do we get a free
version of this out there?
So with PTVs we plug
into the integrated shell and
it just works, but the
immigrated shell doesn't have the
JavaScript language service and things
like that. And so we
might at some point try
to get into the web
express skew or try to
start some other skew that's
web centric. But Yeah, you
should not start another skew.
You should talk to my
boss and get into what
we call VWD. Yeah. Yeah.
That sounds like the right
way to go. Because then
ultimately what this is becoming
then is a web powerhouse
for Azure. Yeah. Right. Yep.
And that is a huge
part of our focus. Right.
I mean, we have all
sorts of Azure deployment and
you can, you know, of
course you can use get
to deploy to anything. Yeah.
We just want people to
be happy. I've said this
before I made a joke
earlier, you know, it was
like, we're going to get
paid regardless, you know, until
we get fired for doing
something. So let's just do
awesome stuff until we either
make people successful and happy
and our bosses are happy
or we get canned. Are
aren't you pretty happy? Your
badge still works. Yeah. It's
pretty awesome actually. So what
is, where is the site
they go to COVID plugs.
They go on the website,
Coat flux. It is no
JS tools.co.com, No JS tools.covid.com.
Cool. And by the time
I put this podcast up,
I should have had written
up a blog post about
this. And some people hopefully
will have discovered it and
started playing with it. Yeah.
How often are you going
to update? So we are
probably going to do so
it's going to be a
few months before we get
to beta, most likely, but
we actually have the ability
to put out releases pretty
quickly now, you know, obviously
we're Microsoft and there's some
process involved, but we have
been working on cutting that
process down. And so we
will probably be planning out
builds every couple of weeks.
They won't be as well
tested as kind of our
big, you know, our alpha,
we spend a bunch of
time making sure everything was
working in beta. We'll do
that same thing. But if
you run into an issue
and open a bug, we
will probably fix that bug
pretty quickly. And it will
be out in a developer
release and you can check
it out if you want
to live on the bleeding
edge. And do you think
that there was, well, I
gotta say it, there was
the whole kind of iron
Python iron Ruby thing, and
there was never really a
sense of it was, was
it loved? Was it supported?
Was it cared about those
projects have gone off and
some have succeeded and some
have not. Are these peers
is iron, is his Python
for visual studio tools and
no tools for visual studio
peer projects? Or is this
an experiment here? You know
what I mean? Like, are
they brothers, are they, are
they brothers? Is this just
a younger brother? And they're,
but they're still loved by
the parents. The same Tools
in Python tools are peers
of each other. They share
a bunch of common code
between them. If you went
off to the source code
tab on both of them
and overlayed, the two source
drops on top of each
other, you have a bunch
of files that you would
override, Right? So you needed
Python tools to succeed and
be well and be stable.
And that enabled the note
tools. Yes, Yes. Yes. And
like our project system is
shared and of course our
project system came from something
called MPF proj long ago,
but it has advanced significantly.
So they are two peas
in a pod effectively. Okay.
Younger brother, older brother. Right.
Parents love them the same
I don't have kids.
So I'm thinking about it.
I'm saying that like, you're
not going to like kill
one kid. You're not gonna
get rid of one kid.
You know what I'm saying?
I don't think we'll get
rid of one kid. I'm
just trying to see if
it's an experiment or if
it's a thing just like
Python, where it's like, yeah,
we're really in this to
make it awesome. It's so,
You know, our team is
really into this to make
it awesome. Is also a
bit of an experiment though.
Right. It, you know, we
want to see where it
will go. We want to
see how people react to
it. And if it succeeds
wildly, then you know, I
think, you know, it's not
going to get killed obviously,
but it's like, well, if
people download the thing, then
it's probably not going to.
Yeah. I mean, you know,
if no one cares, then
I can't see us keep
building it. But I think
people are going to care.
That's a good answer. Sure.
And that's not like a
marketing answer because you're a
dev. So if people use
it and love it, and
I assume you guys are
gonna measure that based on
downloads and excitement and issues
and, and, and uptick. Like
people swim. Yeah. Meaning The
visual studio improvement program. Is
that what it's called? Aren't
people clicking the, the software
quality metrics, buttons, letting us
see that they are in
fact use it. Yep. Like
it might get great press,
but the might say six
people use it. Yeah. Yeah.
Cause this is one of
those things installed it and
they never used it. Yeah.
You do see that people
love the Python one. Is
that correct? Yep. So that's
six. That, would it be
fair to say that's a
success? Yes, I think so.
Okay. Cool. So people have
said we would love a
node ID, but your money
put your money where your
mouth is in the sense
of art. All of these
visual studio, people are going
to ask you in that
$0 million, take your $0 million and
your copy of visual studio
that you've got somehow and
make it happen. Yep. Cool.
That's really exciting. Yeah. Well,
thanks so much for chatting
with me today. Thank you,
Scott. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
we'll see you again next
week.